
—————————
Title:  Effective Prompts: Build a React login page in three minutes

Content: This is the first installment in an instructive series in prompt engineering best practices.  

We’ll begin with a practical example, by building a common frontend feature: A Javascript/React login page.  

First, some high-level considerations (with a deeper dive into each point, below):  

Prompts should be expressed  in, and seek to induce, step-by-step, chain of thought reasoning. 

1. Structure is key.  Prompts should be composed top-down.  First think on the highest level, and deconstruct the task into discrete, bite-sized tasks.

2. Precision is key. Prompts should encompass each step of a task, but be as concise as possible. 

3. Break it up.  Don’t feed the LLM a lengthy, rambing prompt, break the task down into as many discrete tasks as possible, while mantaining logical cohesion. 

When composing prompts, the best approach is to deconstruct the task into small, bite-sized 

tasks containing  concise commands reflecting the discrete structure of each module, method or class.  

Really, it’s simple - just capture, step by step,  the technique you have in your mind as 

you code your morning ticket.  This first step is asking yourself questions.

What exactly *is* a  React  login page? What does it do, and what are the minimal things it 

needs in order to do that? For illustratvie purposes, we won’t get fancy (yet).  We’ll stick to the 

barest possible combination of necessary elements to "get the job done” of logging 

users in.  A login page is (minimally):

1. A discrete React component.

2. Exported into a larger component hierarchy.

3. That incorporates specific jsx DOM elements, such as, minimally:

    a. A header <h1>with a title, i.e. “Login Page” or “Please enter username and password”.
    
    b. Form inputs for username and password.
    
    c. A submit button.

4. That also incorporates methods to perform tasks, for example:

    a. A “handle submit” function that, called when the submit button is clicked.
    
    b. A method to validate our user’s input to the form.
    
    c. Methods to make HTTP requests (sending the credentials to the backend for authentication) and process the responses.
    
    d. A method to navigate to the next page (if the login is successful).

5. That imports a CSS file for (in this case, basic) styling.

6. That incorporates navigation in the UI.

Now that we have an understanding of our requirements, we can create a series of prompts.

Here is the first:

Prompt 1 – Define the task and constraints

I want you to build a single React page component that will act as a “Login” page for the UI of 

customer service application.

Requirements:

* Use React functional components.

* Style with plain CSS in a separate file, no CSS frameworks at this time.

* The page must include:

    * A placeholder header area at the top of the page.
    * A simple form with two inputs: “User Name” and “Password”.
    * A “Submit” button.

* This page must be treated as a route in a React Router setup.

* There will be a navigation bar at the top that lets the user navigate to this page and away from it: 

* To start, make a “Home” link and a “Login” link.  Those will be separate, reusable component we create in a later step.

—————————

